[MUSIC]
Building statistical models is a process,
and each step should be taken carefully.
Here we outline the general process and
offer some practical advice.
We'll call this the statistical
modeling, Process.
The first step in this process
is to understand the problem.
This may seem obvious, but
understanding the problem and
context is critical to success.
A sophisticated model might be useless
if it is applied inappropriately.
For example, suppose you have revenue
data from several different locations
of a store chain at unknown locations.
It seems reasonable to
average these revenue numbers
as a summary of how the store is doing.
Then suppose you discover that the stores
are located in different countries and
reported revenues in different currencies.
Now that average doesn't seem to
have much meaning unless, of course,
we get the revenue numbers
converted to the same scale.
The second step is to plan and
properly collect relevant data.
There may be multiple quantities that
you could potentially measure to help
answer your question.
In this step,
you decide what information will be
most useful to solving your problem.
How to collect the data and
how many data points to collect.
The quality of your data collection
plan determines the value of your data.
For example, if you conduct a survey
of peers in your workplace.
Your results would likely not generalize
to all workers in the company,
especially if there
are multiple work sites.
If you want generalizable results,
a better plan would be to select
a random sample among all employees
to participate in your survey.
The step is addressed in detail in
most introductory statistics courses.
The third step in this process
is to explore your data.
In this step, you should ensure that
the data collection plan was followed.
And that the data were
recorded accurately.
If there are major surprises in that data,
verified that they are not errors.
In this step,
you'll often want to visualize the data to
gain a basic understanding of
the relationships among your variables.
This can help you decide what kinds
of models might be appropriate.
Finally, the practice of snooping
around or mining your data,
looking for interesting hypothesis
to test can potentially invalidate
your statistical modeling results.
If you want to mine your data,
and test your findings,
it is usually best to randomly
split your data into two parts.
With one part, you can look for
interesting things to test and
fit different potential models.
With the other, you can fit the model
you chose using the first part
to validate or see if the results
can be replicated on other data.
The fourth step in this process
is to postulate a model.
After gaining an understanding of how your
data are structured, choose a model that
can appropriately approximate or summarize
the interesting content of the data.
This might be an off the shelf
statistical model like a regression or
it could be based on a scientific
theory such as a growth model.
It could also be multiple models.
Generally, it is desirable to find
a model where the parameters we estimate
can be interpreted in the context
of the original problem.
You might also have to strike a balance
between model complexity, and
model generalizability.
This is often referred to as
the bias variance tradeoff.
Large complex models, might be able to
fit your particular dataset very well.
But may fail to generalize to future data.
Let's look at an example of this.
Let's suppose your data looked like this.
x is your explanatory variable,
y is your response variable.
And you have points like these.
One possible model you could fit would
be just a linear regression going
through the points.
Another possibility for model you
could fit here would be essentially
an interpolator that makes sure it
goes through every single point.
Now, consider a future scenario
where you've got another
dataset just like this one
with a new cloud of points.
You can imagine that perhaps
this interpolated model,
which fit the original dataset perfectly,
might struggle on a future dataset.
The next step in our statistical
modeling process is to fit the model.
In this step we need to estimate the
parameters of the model using the data.
In this particular class, we're going to
take a Bayesian approach to this step.
Next, we're going to check the model.
Here we want to check to see if
the model adequately imitates the data
generating process.
Are predictions from the model realistic?
Does it fit well to your data?
Or does it completely miss
some of the features?
We'll look into some the techniques for
doing this, including residual analysis
and predictive checks later in the course.
In this step,
we may also compare a competing
models according to some criteria.
Next, we're going to iterate.
That is, return, possibly,
to steps 4 through 6.
If the model you have already fit is, for
some reason, inadequate, we should return
to step 4 and proceed through step 6
again with a new, and hopefully better,
model that would address or correct
the deficiencies from your previous model.
Finally, we're going to use the model.
If we've iterated through these enough
times and decided that the model is good,
or that we have selected an appropriate
model, we can use the results to answer
your original research questions and
arrive at conclusions.
In this course, we are going
to focus on steps 4 through 8.
But this does not mean steps 1 through
3 should be ignored in any analysis.
In fact, the importance of steps
1 through 3 cannot be overstated.
The validity of you final
results depends on them.
That is why most introductory statistics
courses will emphasize these steps.
If you'll not explore this issues in
an introductory statistics course,
we highly recommend you do so.
We hope you'll refer to this outline,
the statistical modeling process
often as you begin modeling data.
[MUSIC]